---
layout: ArticleLayout.jsx
title: Part 3, Content
tags: [article, content, 11ty]
---

Every website project should start with some content.

---
For 11ty, the content is stored in [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org) files in the folder `/content`. The actual text of the files is plain Markdown but what makes static site generators so flexible is that you can combine this with YAML frontmatter to associate any structured data with the content.

As an example, you'll find the file `2022-10-02-introduction.md` listed below. As you can see, it has some content, but it also has metadata such as the layout to use when rendering the article (more on that later), the title of the article, and even some tags to organize the articles.

```markdown
---
layout: ArticleLayout.jsx
title: Part 1, Introduction
tags: [article]
---

Ok, I admit. I have a thing for static site generators. It
started with Jekyll; after that, Gatsby was my weapon of choice
for a while. But new tools keep popping up every month, and my
new favorite, without a doubt, is 11ty.

In the first article of my web development in 2022 series, I
will show how I use 11ty to create this site.

---

Most web developers are...
```

Each Markdown file will create its own page. So if you want to create a page at the url `/cool/`, you create a file called `index.md` in the folder `/content/cool`. You can always override the url of a page by adding `permalink: /not-cool/` in the frontmatter data.

A Markdown file is a trigger to create pages. As we'll see in a later article, one Markdown file can create multiple pages, but no Markdown file = no page.

### Images, css and other assets

The next piece of content is images, css and other assets. Different types of assets need to be handled differently. Images, for instance, should be optimized, resized to the correct size, and delivered to the browser in the best format possible. For this reason, I place all assets in the folder `/src/assets`.

I will return to this folder in a later article where I'll discuss performance. For now, I've configured 11ty to simply copy all assets to the output folder. So if you add an image to `/src/assets/image.png`, you can reference it as `/assets/image.png` in your pages.

[Part 4, Layouts](/blog/2022-10-05-layouts/)
