---
layout: ArticleLayout.jsx
title: Part 4, Layouts
tags: [article, layouts, 11ty]
---

All static site generators use some kind of templating engine to lay out your pages. 11ty is a bit different here since it allows you to choose from many different engines (such as Nunjucks, Liquid, and Handlebars). Coming from Gatsby and the React world, they all looked kind of dated.

---

Fortunately, you can add more engines through plugins, so I use [eleventy-hast-jsx](https://github.com/j-f1/eleventy-hast-jsx). This plugin brings the simplicity of
JSX and the full power of JavaScript to your layouts.

Let's start with the most straightforward layout, the about page in `/src/layouts/AboutLayout.jsx`.

```javascript
const { Raw } = require("eleventy-hast-jsx")
const Navigation = require("../components/Navigation")

function AboutLayout({ content, page, title }) {
   return (
      <>
         <Navigation url={page.url} />
         <main>
            <article>
               <header>
                  <h1>{title}</h1>
               </header>
               <Raw html={content} />
            </article>
         </main>
      </>
   )
}

module.exports = {
   default: AboutLayout,
   data: {
      layout: "BaseLayout.jsx"
   }
}
```

There is a lot to unpack here, so let's start from the top.

### Components

Using JSX and JavaScript, you can structure your layouts just like you would any React application – through components. 11ty has a general concept called shortcodes that provide a similar feature across all templating engines. I prefer the React way of doing it, so I've just ignored that feature altogether.

This is the `/src/components/Navigation.jsx` component.

```javascript
const items = [
   { href: "/", text: "Blog" },
   { href: "/archive", text: "Archive" },
   { href: "/about", text: "About" }
]

function Navigation({ url = "" }) {
   const activeIndex = items.reduce((previousValue, item, index) => {
      return url.startsWith(item.href) ? index : previousValue
   }, -1)

   return (
      <nav>
         <ul>
            {items.map((item, index) => (
               <li className={activeIndex === index ? "active" : ""}>
                  <a href={item.href}>{item.text}</a>
               </li>
            ))}
         </ul>
      </nav>
   )
}

module.exports = Navigation
```

If you are familiar with React, this should look very familiar. We get our props as arguments to the function and deconstruct them directly. We then use standard JavaScript and JSX to generate the HTML that we want to output.

<p class="info">
Note that the goal is to create a static HTML page, so no click handlers or other interactive parts of React are allowed – just plain HTML elements. I may get back to interactive components in a later article.
</p>

Components can be composed of other components, so you can create an entire design system using components if you want to.

### Data

If you go back to the layout, your eyes will probably stop directly at the function declaration.

```javascript
function AboutLayout({ content, page, title }) {
```

This function creates a standard React component that gets its content, title, and a page object from the props, but who provides these props? 11ty! 11ty passes a lot of data to our layouts, including the page object and all data from the Markdown file.

Remember the `layout` key in the Markdown file earlier? A Markdown file triggers a page to be created, and the `layout` key specifies which layout to use. This is what causes the `AboutLayout` function above to be invoked at all, and as part of that invokation, 11ty provides the props.

In this case, content is the text from the Markdown file, the title comes from the frontmatter data, and the page is a special 11ty object. Data can come from many different sources though, and the 11ty documentation has an [entire section](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/data/) about this. My suggestion – test it! Replace the deconstruction in the function with a single `props` variable and print it using `console.log(JSON.stringify(props, null, 2)`. This will give you an idea of what data you have available.

### Base layouts

One final thing to note about layouts is that they can be nested. In the example above, you may have noticed that just like the Markdown file had a layout property, the layout itself exported a layout property. In this case, it points to `BaseLayout.jsx`. This way, we can nest layouts. You may have wondered where I put all the styling and other HTML stuff. This is the place.

```javascript
const { DOCTYPE, Raw } = require("eleventy-hast-jsx")

function BaseLayout({ content, title }) {
   return (
      <>
         <DOCTYPE />
         <html lang="en">
            <head>
               <meta charSet="utf-8" />
               <title>{title}</title>
               <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
               <link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/styles.css" />
            </head>
            <body>
               <Raw html={content} />
            </body>
         </html>
      </>
   )
}

module.exports = {
   default: BaseLayout
}
```

[Part 5, Building](/blog/2022-10-06-building/)
